---
layout: postjournal
title:  3D Songs
excerpt: Eight hours squashed underneath a stationary, 
tags: nishika, pakon
---

{% jrnl %}

I enjoy the surprise with which friends receive my song recommendations.  This
particular tune has two things going for it: a rhythm and a memory. When I told
Jaggy who was driving


Hand it over! Give it to me right now, we’ll play whatever the maharaj wishes to hear.


So i pass them the song which i came across by way of Jabberwocky a blog related
to films. In a masterful short, Manoj Bajpayee plays Taandav, the constable
under gazzilions of pressure to find a way to pay for his precocious daughters
education. With an unhappy spouse and fighting off pecuniary temptations our
Tandaav finally gives in to the music of the parade and enters a trance. He
dances with intoxicated liberation.


<div style="text-align:center;">
<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RgO1HvdcZl8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>


Once upon a time, someone asked me why i enjoy lying in the sun on the
hill. I couldn’t give an answer that satisfied her. Digging further, the answer
that satisfied us both was that for those few moments there was nothing else. I
wholly enjoyed the present, without a nod to the future nor a look to the
past. And by definition i couldn’t be thinking of work or a book, or a good
movie, because that would not have been the present. The present was the grass,
the sunshine, the view, the air, the aroma, the qualia. The present involved experiencing them all instantly.


And so for Inspector Taandav, for that moment he was liberated from the woes of
his life. Free without a care for the future, a future where he gets suspended
:(


Back to the song, the movie ends in Nucleya’s (can one be a hip hop / rap artist
without a twist in the spelling?) <b>Mumbai Dance</b>. Which I heard in office, on
loop. And now i hand over to Jaggy. He starts it and the car erupts. Everyone in the
car looks at me. This piece is electric and the very opposite of the owner of
this stationary, belching, arse. But in the context of the short, for this song
will always have that context for me, the song is such a heady emotional
release. And lastly before we move on to something else, another brilliant piece
from Nucleya.  

<div style="text-align:center;">
<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/wlWsIH_bUKU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>



<b>The Nishika 9000</b> camera was the successor to the Nishika 8000(a big bulky
bertha) . A plastic peice of 90’s machinery with 4 lenses, these cameras took a
view of the scene from four slightly different angles. The film was printed by a
process called lenticular printing resulting in a 3D image that would leap out
of the photo (as Nishika and Vincent Price would have you believe). This was
back in the nineties and in a world with film, cameras, dinky computers, bad
hairstyles and worse jackets and dinky computers, this was just the sort of
gadget people would want.  

Unfortunately now it costs $$9 to print (per frame!) and the camera costs
$$13. You do the math. Luckily, I can scan the negatives using my trusty Pakon
and follow the excellent [Youtube instructions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7VUvQN_ytqY)
to get these below


<div style="text-align:center;">
<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7VUvQN_ytqY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>




Aren’t the pictures below just rad?? I reckon for best effects, you want
something in the foreground and something in the background as you keep the
subject aligned. So for example, have you subject keep one hand out? or maybe
jump, but slightly towards you (e..g their leg sticking out at you). Or blowing
bubbles to the Nishika?  


{% imgtile nc=1 w=6 %}

{{ site.url }}/images/photos/nishika/sapsi.gif
{{ site.url }}/images/photos/nishika/chr1.gif
{{ site.url }}/images/photos/nishika/she1.gif
{{ site.url }}/images/photos/nishika/my1.gif

{% endimgtile %}


You can also automate the alignment using `align_image_stack` (a tool
that comes with Hugin) but tended to warp images for me.  As for uploading to
the Facebook, our beloved social overlord does not display animated GIFs in
their animated glory. Hence here is a gist to convert the animated gif to MP4
(which can be uploaded, but again the moronic Facebook does not allow more than
one video per post).  

<script src="https://gist.github.com/saptarshiguha/d015afff5884b472a122.js"></script>


I hope to have a few more added to this page.

{% endjrnl %}




<!-- Ends op most -->
