---
layout: postjournal
title: Extensions for R using Rust 
excerpt: As a long time Mozillian I 
tags: R, rust
---

{% widepic {{ site.url }}/images/photos/randomimg/DSCF1819-orig.jpg %}

{% jrnl width=col-lg-6 col-md-6 col-xs-10  col-sm-10 col-centered %}
 
As a long time Mozillian I too got caught up in the excitement of Rust. Almost
every other day someone posts a Rust success story or how they fell in love with
this wonderful language. Can I sit still while a language evolves? A while back,
I wanted to write extensions for R using Rust. But till now Rust depended on
several libraries being loaded and could not easily be called from other
languages. That has all changed and embedding Rust is now
trivial.  

 My time with Rust is a combination of basic programming, a lot of wonderful
help on #rust (irc) and good Googling. I will be honest and say I havent grokked
the memory model. I could not explain why I did some things and why not. And I
certainly cannot correct the programs of others. That said, the compiler
messages are wonderful and if a Rust program compiles, it will <i>likely</i>
work. This is very relaxing and reassuring. Also Rust is cutting edge: there are
many advances being made in the Rust world all of which the extension author can
rely on.

Other things I enjoyed:  

-  the macro system is powerful and  fun to program with (but i like
TerraLang's better). Simplifying API design is very import.
- the build system is superb (see the Github repo for <code>build.rs</code>).
- I'm in love with the <code>match</code> approach to case matching.
- Traits are great.
-  Though not a substitute for the Rust book (and you do need to be somewhat
familiar with Rust to benefit from this), the [link](http://hoverbear.org/2015/07/10/reading-rust-function-signatures/)
 is a lucid introduction to the memory model and Rust signatures.


Though my next project will be a Rust one,  I do wish for an excellent
book like the K&R C book. The documentation is good, but slightly brief and
Stackoverflow, though a gift, is not enough.


My still favorite language for extensions is [RTerra](https://github.com/saptarshiguha/terrific/tree/master/rterra)
which uses TerraLang. This enabled the R programmer to  write extensions in
Lua+Terra. It is a quite a pleasure to code and an easy language to learn (less
than a day). But on OSX,  one needs to compile R to use it (LuaJit
restrictions). That is a show stopper. The other approach (which I will soon
implement) is for the package to deliver an R executable which you would execute
as <code>R CMD rterra</code>. But that means, if you use RevolutionR, then you
lose out on the wonderful Terra.


I've decided to not do any more Rust-R coding. I doubt anyone is going to use it
so I'll leave the code up on GitHub
[here](https://github.com/saptarshiguha/rustr). Meanwhile some code samples.


**You wrap** the Rust code with a `no mangle` declaration. Rust like C++
will mangle function names and if that occurs you wont be able to call it from
R. As you can see the  code below just returns it's parameter.

```rust
#[no_mangle]
pub extern fn ex0(p0 : SEXP) ->  SEXP {
        return p0;
}
```

**This creates a new numeric vector** of length 10. Garbage collection (R's
`PROTECT/UNPROTECT`) is taken care for you. You have to call `to_sexp` to return
the SEXP version of the R - Rust object. Using Rust compiler plugins, one way
would be declare the function to return `T: RObject` and the library
would automatically call `to_sexp`

```rust
#[no_mangle]
pub extern fn exa(_: SEXP) -> SEXP {
        let p1 = realvec![_;10]; // numeric(10)
        return p1.to_sexp();
}
```

**Pre create** a numeric vector

```rust
#[no_mangle]
pub extern fn exb(_: SEXP) -> SEXP {
        //c(10.1,12.1,13.0,14.0)
        let  p3 = realvec![10.1,12.1,13.0,14.0]; 
        return p3.to_sexp();
}
```

**Equivalent of R's `rep`** function. Also demonstrates that array
indexing is nicely possible (with bounds checking that result in a panic)

```R
#[no_mangle]
pub extern fn exd(_: SEXP) -> SEXP {
        let mut p2 = realvec![12.0;10]; // rep(12,10)
        p2[2] = 13.0;
        return p2.to_sexp();
}
```

**Nice scalar multipliers and additions**. Note the `&p2`. The ampersand
indicates that the `for` loop is *borrowing*
`p2`. Thus we can still use it (in the last line). Had we not used
the ampersand, the `for` loop takes over ownership (of
`p2`) and we can't use `p2` again. Learn about Rusts
memory model to better understand this.

```rust
#[no_mangle]
pub extern fn exe(p0: SEXP) -> SEXP {
        let mut p2 = realvec![2.0;3]; // rep(2.0,3)
        p2[2] = 1.0;
        p2 = 2.0-3.0*p2;
        for x in &p2{
                println!("{}",x);
        }
        p2.to_sexp()
        
}
```


Here we demonstrate the **R equivalent of slicing** e.g.  `vector[ n1 : n2 ]`. We
create a vector of length 12, and  `rrange` is a Rust macro which
takes everything up to the 10'th element (not inclusive). We could also have
done `10=>` or even `2 => 10` (with the obvious interpretations). The underscore in the
parameters indicates to Rust we don't care about it and so the compiler will not
emit unused variable warnings.

```rust
#[no_mangle]
pub extern fn ex3(_ : SEXP) ->  SEXP {
        let mut p = realvec![12.0;10]; 
        let s = rrange![p; => 10];
        println!("{}",p);
        return p.to_sexp();
}
```

**So you coerce `SEXP` objects using code similar to below**. But since a
`NULL` cannot be converted into a numeric, we return a
`Result` which could either be an error or an object that implements
`Robject`. The coder will have to check for it. This can be good and
bad. Good because it forces the coder to consider that the user might (and well
can) have given incorrect types of arguments. The code is verbose and hence the
bad. But this can be shortened using `try!`. Note how we use
`match` to check the return type. If the conversion was a success, we
get an `Ok` which contains a mutable reference to the object
`p`. 

We also check for the Error ( and `with_sexp` returns
`Result<Robject, RUnexpectedtype>` , so we have exhaustively checked
both values) and get a variable to the error directly inside the match. Modern
languages like Haskell, Scala, Ocaml, F# and Rust have this superb matching
system which once used is difficult to let go of.

```rust
#[no_mangle]
pub extern fn ex2(p0 : SEXP) ->  SEXP {
   match Rnumeric::with_sexp(p0) {
         Ok(mut p) => {
            println!("{}",p);
            // return p.to_sexp();
            p[0] = 10.2;
            return  Rnumeric::from(p[0] as f64).to_sexp();
        },
        Err(RUnexpectedType { rtype:t}) => {
           println!("Found Wrong Type: {:?}",t);
           return Rnull::to_sexp();
        }
   }
}
```


And here is the GitHub [repository](https://github.com/saptarshiguha/rustr).

{% endjrnl %}
