---
layout: postjournal
title: Long walk ahead
excerpt: come with be and my love 
tags: misc
---
{% widepic  https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1a29iZlc4elR6WDQ  %}

{%  jrnl  %}

From Sausalito (Tenessee Valley), Oregon can be reached by trail. Which brings to mind the
following ditty

{% imgtile nc=1 w=6 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1cklUOVFhMUFvZEk
{% endimgtile %}

{% poem %}
come with me an  be and my love  
and we will all the pleasures prove  
lost, bedraggled, hunger despair  
four-eighty-two miles my fair  
we'll hush together,tuck together  
talk together,fuck together  
in the bone cold open air  
and we'll buy fresh underwear  
when we reach Oregon  
coz theres no sales tax there  
{% endpoem %}


{% endjrnl %}

{% imgtile nc=1 w=6 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1UGNTM2pZUGN1SW8
{% endimgtile %}

{%jrnl %}
And finally Tashi turned 3 months, batteries included. By that I mean to say, I
purchased all the batteries (rather than take 12 batteries from office I did the
good thing and purchased from Walgreens). He was entranced by the light and
sound show. A little furry duck that glowed and played classical music, a little
whale that projected images on the ceiling and played sounds of the sea, and
another mobile that played a gentle lullaby. And lastly, a rattle that also
played classical music. It seems baby soothing is classical musics's last
influence on this world.

During the day he is very interactive and playful. Staring intently, it's rather
easy to get a smile out of him. In fact, sitting at an angle, placing him on the
shins and then bringing knees to stomach is not only exhausting (his 14lbs cannot
be ignored) but also (for some reason) got him to laugh. Watching daddy exert
huh? 

Somewhere in the 3month he grew hair and the warm caress is is gift that keeps
giving. All his gurgling, cooing and aahing is like a little language struggling
to be understood. But what does it say?

{% endjrnl %}


{% imgtile nc=1 w=5 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1cGNxb3lIUllnYjA
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1Y0F0N2k4UldmYXc
{% endimgtile %}
