---
layout: postjournal
title: Why wait
excerpt: Public Transport is a series of waiting
tags: misc
---
{% widepic  https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1ZVJDSTNRaGM1SG8 %}

{%  jrnl  width=code %}

Public Transport is a series of waiting. Short pleasant phases interspersed with
seemingly unending ones. Like a morse code message.  This realization dawned on
me two weeks ago when I committed to run some errands using Public Transport.  I
resolutely embarked on my promise, taking the F bus from the Ferry building
which trundles along Market street, passes the Financial District, pauses in the
Tenderloin, makes a few stops near Hayes Valley and I get of in the Castro.

And so began the waiting. I read that the NextBus website (and their
corresponding bus stop alert signs) has not been working for the past few
weeks. And sure enough that was the case with the website refusing to load on my
phone and the bus stand signs resolutely blank. The F bus was my only way of
getting to my destination. I had no alternatives except using Lyft or hailing a
taxi. The latter are swiftly becoming an extinct species, (an event i’m not
terribly upset about), and taking a Lyft was against my once a day Lyft quota (I
had taken a Lyft to get to where i was).

{% imgtile nc=1 w=10 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1VHpySWlNVUlRUkU
{% endimgtile %}


Waiting for public transport is at odds with our usual perceptions of time. With
the natural expectation of waiting time to decrease as we wait longer, the
NextMuni timings can slip and slide in time. As if time were a rubber band being
alternately stretched and relaxed. An “expected time” of 5 minutes can turn 10
minutes and then a minute later, drop to an expected time of 6 minutes. Keeping
time with a signboard is really aligning the exhaustion of expectation (of the
bus to come at the mentioned time) with a countdown of the time to wait. But
with these infernally unreliable timekeepers (the Muni signboards), the wait has
three nasty heads: the wait by my watch, the wait i’ve perceived (the most
bloody real) and the wait on the shame faced lying Muni signboard.  When you’re
the only one at the stop, you cannot wait until the next person gives up and
walks away.  There is no combining of hope, or joint prayer, or community
wailing at Public Transport, all of which might appear to make the wait shorter,
or serendipitously, end with the sighting of the bus. No, alone I stand, with
possibly my watch to look at (and if a watch was not handy (;), then what?
Watching the setting sun? Listening to one’s internal monologues? Wait for the
the lizard to move?). Waiting for the bus is like watching the river flow by:
one is not waiting for anything to happen. Because if you do wait for it to
happen, surely you will reach a point of where you forget what it is.  Wait as
the street lights turn on, wait as the last office goer passes by (taking the
BART which is better but can have its own unique horrors), wait as the joggers
breathe in the crisp dusk air, kick yourself and wait as the cyclists swiftly
approach their destination and wait as you see your bus go in the opposite
direction.

{% imgtile nc=1 w=10 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1ZnNWWTlEM243bkU
{% endimgtile %}

And the bus is sighted. Two stops away. But we must wait a bit more till the
cake reaches our plate. The stop light turn red, the pedestrians cross the road,
the straggler ambles by staring at her phone, her child runs after her. The
light has turned green but the bus driver must wait for them to cross. The
mother must wait for her son to reach her the other side of the road. She reads
her phone while she waits. The bus driver stares at his thermos while he
waits. And i stare at the bus as I wait. The light has turned green, the bus
makes it way to me, it’s solitary pickup, and it turns out one of the two
reasons it stopped. To drop of person in a wheelchair. The bus stops, the driver
gets of, switches on the ramp, the ramp gently lowers, the passenger wheels
away, the ramp rises. This is an ethical wait. In fact all waits in Public
Transport are ethical waits. I cannot begrudge the elderly person who slowly
boards or the sluggish 33 that picks up every human being in san francisco. The
public transport serves everyone. I’m a cog waiting for my turn to turn.

I’m on the bus! And we wait. Wait for an altercation between the driver and an unruly passenger to end.  As we slowly make our way forward like a mechanical snake (the mUNi busses are flexible in their design), I watch the evening sky make way for night as it settles over the Ferry building. Thankfully no rain today or else the waiting would have nine rings to it. As we move forward, waiting for the lights to turn green, waiting for the police to give us way, waiting for the snarl to pass so that we can offload passengers at the stop barely 5 meters away and once we do reach, we wait for the stuck doors to open,  I muse.  

{% imgtile nc=1 w=10 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1TEFzcTZsUy1vdkE
{% endimgtile %}

Why did i take the bus and not Lyft? Was it really a quota? A car too has to
stop for most of the above scenes. But in a bus, we’re all in this
together. Most of us realize the bus driver and the organism that is city
evening traffic bear us no ill will. We can mutter, stare at the phone, huff and
puff, pray but we all whine together. There is community if not hope, and
community can engender hope. And I muse more.


Why the bus and not the cycle? A cyclist doesn't wait. But a cyclist is alone. I
am in a bus with 30 others, we are in bus with tens of other busses. All of us
want be somewhere else. And we are all alone and together. Breathing,
frustrating, sweating,standing,talking, waiting. Together. Some of us crossing
our fingers. Crossing our fingers for the next light to remain green; it does! I
get of the bus in a trice and lo, my next bus is around the corner. And i didn't
wait this time. I sprung to action. My life in my legs, i sprint to the other
side. My commute on the wings of my spirit. I dodge the car who comes to a stop
and waits, I stand en pointe as the cyclist abruptly breaks for me, ask for
forgiveness as i run in front of drivers who just started from their sixty
second wait at the stop light. I am the first person to board the bus.

The traffic is getting dense, the absent rain eventually made its appearance,
the weary passengers are bathed in a red hue from the wet reflections of
choc-a-block brake lights.  A girl kisses her partner and rests her head on her
shoulder. Her eyes closed, a smile hanging on her lips. The smile slowly fades
as her body falls asleep.  Their bodies come together and they too wait. But
their wait lies beyond the perceptions of time. With all that running, i need a
place to rest and recover my breath.  I find a seat and settle in for a long
ride home. I look forward to the wait.


{% swirl %}
{% imgtile nc=1 w=11 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1WGMzaHE3Yk85LWs
{% endimgtile %}
{% endjrnl %}
