---
layout: postjournal
title:  Rapidly approaching six months
excerpt: I'm on paid leave and looking after ...
tags: misc
---


{%  jrnl  %}

Rapidly approaching six months. I'm on paid leave and looking after tashi at
home. Day before last night he surpassed us: he fed at 11 and woke up to feed
again at 6. Holy moly. This is the holy grail of sleep. It could be something to
do with his spacious cot, surrounded by a colorful bumper his toys tucked away
in corners, his mobile above him and still enough space to turn and toss.

Some photos from a day trip to Monterrey (Hasselblad 501cm, portra 400)
{% endjrnl %}

{% imgtile nc=1 w=6 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1b1JZVzFncnBtb2s
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1STE3dllFbm0tT1U
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1cmFwOHdqTUlhSzQ
{% endimgtile %}

{% imgtile nc=2 w=6 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1SDFOeEdIcFlydkk
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1amdsZWFieXhjSG8
{% endimgtile %}

{% jrnl %} 

It's his tossing and his inability to really move around that in my
head prevents him from sleeping soundly. Maybe with improving strength things
will improve. Because that miracle night did not repeat itself the next night.

We have a set routine, tashi and I. Mama leaves and we tackle the day: he sits
in his bed, or rather I prop him on the bed ledge while he watches me make the
bed fold things away pull the curtain etc. Then he plays a bit in his bed while
I have a shower make coffee and eat breakfast. Soon he feels sleepy and getting
tired of the constant pacing to make his Highness sleep, I sit on the rocking
chair let him wail for five minutes (which feels like eternity in the evening)
and then get up and pace for a few about 5 -10 minutes aftrr which he falls
asleep. All is good. And hour or if km lucky jour and half later he wakes, we
play (haven't read much books!) And then some times we go out. Him wide awake
taking everything in.

{% swirl %}

The other day he met rex and Bo. In my head this would have been a photo op but
sadly rex was hyper and Bo wanted to lick his face off. Through this mêlée tashi
was very curious and seemingly enjoying it. Tentatively. I knew for sure he
didn't mind because he ended up smiles galore when I was changing him. So st
least he doesnt mind dogs.

Dad and mum have gone to jijos place and that's phantom tashi syndrome. Mum was
washing plates (at jijos place) and dad told her to keep the volume down! It's
all silent here and no one to hand tashi to when I'm tired. Mum comes back in
three weeks and Namrata comes in July. Really looking forward to Namrata’s
visit.

Mum fed him pureed bananas which he enjoys. Less so carrots and potatoes but
that's likely to my sorry state of pureeing food.

Okay he wakes up from a nearly two hour slumber. Time to play.

{% swirl %}

several weeks ago, while waiting at Millbrae station for the caltrain to arrive,
pacing with earbuds listening to NPR, I heard a mellifluous strain of flute. The
taco/sandwich/coffee/chinese bakery truck that's been serving food for 6 years
and counting has a flute playing owner! Leaning against his truck, in what
presumably was slow hours, eyes closed he serenaded the morning. In the cold
gray cement parking lot, i experiences beautiful dissonance. Moments like these
allow me to remember that person is never just what you perceive them as.


{% endjrnl %}



