---
layout: postjournal
title:  Approaching 4 months
excerpt: Tashi reaches soon turns three and half months old. 
tags: misc
---
{% widepic  https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1MW1QUWpJQk9taTQ %}

{%  jrnl  %}

Tashi soon turns three and half months old. February 9th will be his fourth
month. How things have developed. He smiles every morning, in fact it’s easy to
get smiles out of him. A cheerfully intoned “Good morning” gets a gleeful
smile. He usually wakes up at 5:30 am and is every so restless. Demands
attention and invariably gets it. He is well content in his playpen, grasping
low hanging toys and hitting baubles he cannot grasp. Hitting is a baby's way of
interacting since they don’t have much means to control their nervous and
muscular pathways. I guess bullies neither …

Initially I would wrap his fingers around toys, and he could hold on to
them. Since yesterday he has started wrapping the fingers himself when given the
toy. His gurgles have turned to little half laughters between a little screech
and gurgle. He loves laughing and then turning his face away. A coy boy!

{% imgtile nc=1 w=12 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1UzJWZGFFV1hSS1k
{% endimgtile %}

And he stares and stares absorbing everything. Closing his eyes is anathema. It
seems i was a happy baby. Speaking with my mother (high points to her for taking
care of two us and managing a household at the same time all alone in England),
it turns out Jijo was lap rocked in india by my grandma and had gotten used to
it. Subsequently when taken back to England, my mother had to continue the
practice. He grew out of it eventually. Eventually being 8 months in. I however
was reared the western way, which is to say, pat the baby on the back and place
in cot.  Tashi has received the bouncing and rocking treatment all this time. I
did make attempts at persuading the household to put him in the cot and sleep train
him, but nobody wanted him to cry. And so he doesn’t, but now maybe we do.  A
bit? Putting him to sleep is a long and windy path with grues lurking around the
corner.

We’ve been searching high and low for daycare. It might be that he gets into
Bright Horizons. It is so expensive and so competitive. I did like a family day
care run by German lady. A no nonsense sort who allows the children to play
outdoors with ice, who feeds them very well (she is a nutritionist and I will
say i’m a bit miffed that Bright Horizons, despite their high fee, don’t provide
food) and speaks only in German. But she is only till 3 and BH goes till pre-kg.

The questions I ask myself. Financing the buggers education. I guess a 529 plan
is the most i’ll do. My experience with investing money beyond the basics (e.g. put money
in bank, invest in 401K) is to put it mildly, idiotic.

{% imgtile nc=1 w=12 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1WXEwU0YyVWxjSzg
{% endimgtile %}

Another milestone: he held his feet. I will take pride and say i introduced him
to his feet. While changing him i bent his very flexible body over and got him
to touch his feet. I think it was the first time he understood he had feet. I
have a feeling, like a glimpse , that the baby's hand and mouth play as an
important role as the eyes. Such as something exists if it can be
touched. Seeing is not believing, since they prolly haven’t developed the
concept of ‘belief’. But it if can be touched it must be real, right? I guess
this is a clue for Virtual Reality to really take of - if i get a sensory
feedback when i touch a virtual box etc. So by introducing Tashi to his feet (by
means of hands), i shall note, that I gave him his first step, ha ha, and now he
will grab both his feet, tumble and turn over.

Baby hands lead to baby steps.

{% endjrnl %}

{% swirl %}

{% imgtile nc=2 w=10 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1SnBZMHJpbkt0R28
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1WVp0M1RsSXZ6SHc
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1eUh5YTVMdnpzWmM
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1alZjWGZCLXA1VFU
{% endimgtile %}

{% jrnl %}
Some photos taken with Neopan 400. Some from Hawaii and some in December. These
were taken with the Plaubel Makina 67. I always open up these files with
apprehension yet a little contrast later they are wonderful to behold. Maybe
because, with a medium format i take that much longer to compose, i feel more
love for these photos. Also they are something to behold on a big screen
monitor.

The pictures are from Hawaii (big island), oakland, bernal hill (san francisco)
and the marin headlands. And the banner  image is a quick snap of a fearless and
skillful mountain uni-cyclist.
{% endjrnl %}




{% imgtile nc=1 w=7 %}
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1M1BrakQwTFNLSEk
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1NXI4VTFWQnZuems
https://drive.google.com/uc?id=0B6d70FmpKIi1NEQ3QkhhQTd5QUk
{% endimgtile %}
